# AMsusassessment
This repository contains the calculation spreadsheet used for the sustainability assessment of additive manufacturing end-of-life management calculation. The Excel file found in this repository is intended to serve as a supplementary document to show the calculations completed for the manuscript titled, "Sustainability Assessment of Additive Manufacturing End-of-Life Material Management", submitted to the Resources, Conservation & Recycling Journal. 


Project Description:
Additive manufacturing (AM) methods enable complex, customized, and on-demand production of many products from different material types across various industries. The growing demands for flexible and more sustainable manufacturing solutions place AM in the mix of processes considered for non-commodities.  However, AM processes also present unintentional environmental releases in end-of-life (EoL) opportunities, compromising the overall sustainability. Traditional sustainability assessment tools often fail to enable a comprehensive, risk-based approach to chemical safety decision-making. Therefore, an analysis was completed using efficiency, environmental, energy, and economic indicators from the GREENSCOPE (Gauging Reaction Effectiveness for the Environmental Sustainability of Chemistries with a multi-Objective Process Evaluator) tool. The trade-off analysis identified potential process modifications for pollution prevention, source reduction, risk mitigation, and overall sustainability improvements. The AM EoL-specific sustainability analysis serves as a resource to offer insights and empower policymakers and stakeholders to enhance pollution prevention strategies and optimize EoL material management processes. 

